- Hey, Soren. Hey, I'm Jeeth. - Hello, Michael.
- Hello, Michael. - Welcome to Talk Python, you guys.
It's excellent to have you here. - Thank you very much. I'm a big fan, so it's
very nice to be on the show, actually. - Awesome, yeah. We've got to meet a couple
times at PyCon, which is honestly one of my favorite purposes of PyCon is to meet people
and just hang out and have those experiences.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, and nice to have you on the show, Zorin.
Yeah, I'm a big fan as well.
Thank you very much.
That's very kind of both of you.
So we're going to talk about a pretty awesome tech company,
I think.
Netflix, you both work at Netflix.
And people who are watching the video,
you're coming to us from the Netflix headquarters, which
I've got the chance to be there for some Python
stuff going on there before as well.
Got cool posters and movie studio feel.
So that's the backdrop you both have going on,
which is excellent.
- Yeah, yeah.
It's pretty nice to work at Netflix.
It's a very good company.
I'm very happy.
- Well, a lot of Python we're gonna learn.
- Yes, yeah.
We do use a lot of Python, yeah.
- Excellent.
So we're gonna talk about Python and Netflix,
a wide ranging survey of
A lot of projects you all have created, how you're using it,
some other ones that both of you personally created,
either tied to or not tied to Netflix.
But I think people are gonna really enjoy this look
inside what you all got going on.
Before we get to that though,
let's start with your stories.
Quick introduction, how'd you get here working on Python?
Soren, you wanna go first?
- Yeah.
Yeah, so I was
hooked into programming ever since I saw my first computer.
I was 13 in middle school.
It was an Amstrad CPC.
Right, that was the thing I wanted to do.
So yeah, I started programming as a hobby at first.
And fun fact, way back then, later on in high school,
one of my math teachers told me,
"Hey, do something real.
"Don't do programming.
"It's like a dead end.
"You won't be able to find a job."
(laughing)
Did they tell you things like these drag and drop visual tools
are going to replace all the programmers and the low code of the '80s and '90s,
maybe?
Yeah.
You know, back then, I guess it was very-- well,
didn't seem that obvious, yeah.
Yeah.
And then, yeah, I decided to go computer science anyway,
because that's what I wanted to do.
And then I spent the vast majority of my career
in a language that is not very much known or used,
I think, iPhone.
So I spent more than a decade doing iPhone mostly.
And then I discovered Python once I joined LinkedIn in 2011.
And that's when I got hooked and decided to do more and more
things Python.
And now at Netflix, even more so trying to support
net Python across the board.
- Yeah.
You're kind of doing meta Python in the sense that
your team does a lot of stuff to facilitate
other people doing Python too, right?
- Exactly, yes.
- Yeah, that's our team at Netflix.
Like we enable other Python developers
to be more productive by building tools
or building the infrastructure necessary
to ship their code faster or build their products sooner,
things like that.
- Yeah, cool.
How about you, Amjith?
- Oh, I got introduced to programming in high school.
We had like one hour of computer lab every week.
I got to learn GW basic, that was my first language.
It was fantastic, I still have fond memories
of like trying to draw circles on the screen.
And then I went to college, I learned C and C++.
I liked those, but then after I got a job,
I wanted to learn how to be a better programmer.
And somebody mentioned,
"Oh, functional programming is the bee's knees.
"You should actually, if you learn how to
"do functional programming,
"your general programming will get better.
"And the best language to learn functional programming
"is Haskell."
And so I took a book called "Learn You a Haskell."
And then I went through the first few chapters.
And it was mind-blowing.
It was a really fantastic language.
and I got first introduced to a concept of REPL
and like trying out like little snippets in the interpreter
and getting answers and it was fantastic.
And I got introduced to list comprehension in Haskell
and it was just mind blowing.
It's like, you know, without having to write
like five lines of for loop, you could just,
it's a single line thing.
And I quickly realized that, you know,
you can't find actual jobs writing Haskell
or at least, you know, not,
(laughs)
So I figured out like what's a language
that has list comprehension that is actually employable,
you know, that I could find jobs in.
And that's how I found Python
because I came to Python because of list comprehension.
- Oh, awesome.
- Yeah. - Okay.
Learn You a Haskell for Great Good,
a beginner's guide, is that the book?
- That is the book, yeah.
And it's actually still available online for free
that anybody could read, I'm fairly certain.
And I actually bought like a paper copy of the book.
It's a good book.
Yeah, it's a fun one to go through.
- Yeah, it looks like it's really got
a playful nature to it.
- Yeah, exactly, yeah.
- You know, your thoughts about less comprehensions
really connects with me as well.
I guess my first exposure to something like that
was Link, L-I-N-Q and C#, which is,
it's honestly, I think it's better
than Python less comprehensions.
which Python had out just a little bit more.
- Nice. - Little bit.
Just one or two things more.
For example, wouldn't it be nice in a list comprehension
if you could specify a sort?
Because I find myself often doing a list comprehension
and then sorting the thing in the end afterwards.
But if you could just say, order by,
and give it an expression,
like you would pass a lambda over to a, you know.
So just there's room for more.
What pep do I need to write to get sort in a list comprehension?
I don't know, but I want it.
Anyway, yeah.
So I really think that that's a cool language feature.
And it's also one of the areas that they're
applying some of these speedups in the faster CPython work that's coming.
They're doing list comprehensions for isolation purposes in Python 3
are basically hidden function calls with their own stack frame and variables
that you don't actually see, right?
You don't write it, but that's kind of the execution level.
And now they're inlining those to make them
a little bit faster, maybe twice as fast?
I don't know.
- Yeah, I think the faster Python team is doing
a fantastic job.
There was a talk that I attended at PyCon,
not this year, but the previous year,
where they introduced Switchcase,
how they were doing the case statements.
It's not the exact Switchcase, but coming from C and C++,
I knew what Switchcases are.
And when I saw what is possible with the pattern matching,
like structural pattern matching in Python,
it's like, take Switchcase and then turn it up to 11.
And that's what this is.
And you're right.
I mean, there is always more that can be done.
But I think it's going in a great direction, I think.
It's fantastic.
Yeah, let's talk about that.
We're going to dive into the details of Netflix and stuff.
But just this whole Python 3.11, 3.12,
These are really big performance improvements coming along.
Are you able yet to take advantage of those at Netflix?
And is that making a big difference?
Are you guys still running 3.8?
Or are you more closer to the cutting edge
in terms of releases?
- So I think one of the advantages here at Netflix
is that every team has the freedom to choose the tools
that they need to use.
And it's great and also kind of painful
for central teams because now there's a bifurcation
of all kinds of different versions out there.
But where I'm going with this is that every team
is allowed to choose what they need to use
in order to get their job done.
And so my previous team, we were at the cutting edge.
We used 3.11 or we still use 3.11 in the project
that we built and the services that we use.
And it is a nice boost.
We could certainly see, so for instance,
there is a periodic job that runs
and it's like a sort of a cron job
that runs every five minutes or so.
And we had put in like so much optimization
so that it will actually finish within the five minutes
because we were doing a lot of data crunching and so forth.
And just so we don't like stack up the cron tasks.
But when we switched from, I think from,
like we did jump from 3.9 to 3.11 directly.
We did not like go to 3.10, but then when we jumped,
it felt like, you know,
things that were taking like four minutes,
were now finishing in like two minutes.
And it was like a huge improvement that you could see
and it felt very rewarding to see that.
So yeah, absolutely.
So every team gets to choose what they want to use
and our job as a central Python team
that Zorin and I are currently part of
is to try and enable people to use that,
use whatever is the latest that is available.
So whatever internal tools that we have,
we have to make sure that it actually gets exercised
in the latest Python version that got released
and make sure that everything is building and deploying
as they are supposed to do and so on.
- Okay, excellent.
That's pretty cool, that story of speeding up
your cron jobs.
- Yeah.
- That's non-trivial and it probably wasn't a lot of work
to move from 3.9 to 3.11.
I know my upgrade path was,
rebuild some virtual environments on the server
and now we're good to go.
- Exactly, yep, yeah.
- Yeah.
So, Orin, anything you wanna add about that?
3.11, faster CPython, Slime.
- Oh yeah, so yeah, absolutely, it's so much faster.
The main issue when upgrading is the lack of wheels
if you're stuck on older libraries.
But we do have a few numbers,
like the most used right now is Python 3.10
across the board, it will depend on the team,
everybody is upgrading at their own pace.
And 3.11 is starting to grow a bit.
grow a bit. But yeah, most used right now is 3.10 static.
Honestly, that sounds really quite good for for a company the
size of Netflix and how much Python you're doing. Like that's
pretty close to pushing the envelope.
Yeah, yeah. There are still some teams that are sort of stuck on
three eight or three seven, I want to say, simply because they
provide a platform that allows data scientists to write their code.
And they have this pre-built image with all of the necessary libraries pre-installed in
there.
And so they have a pretty tight control over which libraries will get upgraded on what
cadence and so on.
And so for them, I think they're still running on 3.7.
I'm sure when they switch to 3.10 or 3.11,
it's going to be a screaming fast improvement.
So looking forward to that migration to happen.
- Yeah, excellent.
- Yeah, this number I cited is very static, right?
It's a number of preferred pythons across repos,
but yeah, dynamically, right?
Like you may have lots of instances
who still run on 3.7 and they will massively move to,
so that team is moving from 3.7 to 3.10, for example.
Yeah.
Okay.
Very cool.
All right.
Well, let's, let's start by talking about kind of the, the broad story of Python at Netflix.
Um, maybe we could start with what you all do day to day in terms of like, what's your role?
How do you, 'cause you kind of support other people's Python
as I hinted before.
So maybe we can get a sense of what you all do day to day.
And then we'll, Amjith, you wrote a nice blog article
that's a big broad viewer survey
of how Python's being used in all these different places.
So maybe start with what you all do day to day on your team
and then we'll go into that.
- Yeah, sure thing.
I've been with Netflix for about six years now.
And previously I was in a different team
And we were doing failovers, which was a way of running,
if Netflix ever goes down in one of the AWS regions,
we are the team that gets paged in
and we go and move all the traffic from that region
to another other two regions that we run in.
So that's what I was doing up until like February
of this year.
- Let me just take a step back real quick with you.
Netflix is kind of all in on AWS, right?
Like there's been a lot of stories
about how you all have set loose the chaos monkey
into your data centers and how you worked on failover
from AWS regions.
And so I don't know if you all are the largest users of AWS,
but certainly one of the more interesting,
complicated deployments out there, right?
- Yeah, so I think we were the earliest adopters
of cloud computing when AWS first came out.
And so AWS has used us as the poster child for,
see big companies can run in cloud and you don't have to be on-prem. And so we
think of them as partners, not so much as you know like this client-owner
relationship or anything like that. So we consider AWS as our business partners
and yes we are full in on AWS and Chaos Monkey even now, yes it is it functions
in AWS like it goes around and just inside our VPC it does terminate
instances occasionally or not occasionally, like once every day, one
instance every day on every service. So that is so wild. I mean, obviously, you
don't want to set it loose on other people's AWS instances, right? Yeah, but
no, that's a really interesting way to force people to think about developers
and infrastructure folks to think about what happens if the cloud somehow your
server dies, it may be sending the clouds fall, right? It's just like, okay, there's
a Linux machine running and that thing died, it could have been running anywhere.
It happened to be in AWS.
But to force them to think about outgoing, like we will, it's not an eventuality, this
will happen.
And so you plan for it.
Yeah.
So it's even more than just the idea of like, it will happen.
So we plan for it thing.
It's more like, you know, it's a way of building software where you need to build software
that's resilient and has enough fallbacks built in.
And so for instance, if you are not able to reach the database, do you have a cache in
front that can sort of keep the thing going for the few network calls that are failing
to reach the database?
Those are like basic common things, paradigms that have become commonplace nowadays in software
development where building fallbacks automatically is like standard practice these days.
But when Chaos Monkey was created, which was about 10 years ago, these were like new concepts
that people were not using. And it was assumed that once you have a server and you put your
software on the server and you run it, it's basically done until you do the next deploy,
which takes another month or so to refresh that code. But that all changed once we went to cloud,
where we started doing deployments on a daily basis or maybe even more hourly basis and things
like that. And so when you are doing that, when you are shutting down one server with an old
version and bringing up the new server with the new version, how are you going to make sure that
the connections are not going to fall and how are you going to make sure that the network
continuity continues and so forth. So yeah, Chaos Monkey was just introduced as a way to ensure that
people are building software in a way that is resilient and this is just a way to sort of
test that on an ongoing basis. Yeah, it's quite an operational challenge. I mean, I don't recall
seeing Netflix saying, "Our scheduled maintenance is coming up on Sunday. We'll be down for five
hours." Not acceptable, is it? It just makes you laugh to even think about it. Especially not on a
Sunday. I've even seen government sites, I can't remember which government it was, saying that the
website was closed, like the website had business hours. That's a different deal. Like, you came at
Like, oh, he can't come here right now.
It's like, what?
It's the web.
I don't understand what's going on.
All right, so let's go through this blog post
that you wrote here entitled just Python at Netflix
on the Netflix technology blog.
Yeah, so you wrote this in preparation of PyCon.
This is PyCon 2023?
No, this was 2019, actually.
So this is old by at least two or three years now.
So yeah.
- Okay, yeah, you had pointed out before we press record
that some of these projects mentioned here
that used to be internal things are now also open source.
So there's a little more access to these
than the blog posts might indicate.
- That's right, yes.
Yeah, some of the things that are mentioned here, yes,
they have been open source since then.
So specifically the one that I remember right now
is Metaflow, which is a infrastructure,
it's like a platform orchestration infrastructure framework
that is used by our machine learning organization
where scientists would try and build their model
or they use existing models from like XGBoost
or like tons of other Python libraries.
And their interest and their expertise
lies in crafting those models, training those models
and building the correct algorithm
to do the predictions and so on.
They are not so interested in like,
making sure that enough compute is available
to run these models, or they're not interested
in making sure that the plumbing works
or this model's data is now going to the next step
of this algorithm, or even like getting it deployed
and making it available in the production environment.
So that's all that abstraction is taken care of by Metaflow.
So Metaflow is the project that was mentioned here
and that allows you to make it easy
for machine learning folks to get their system running
as well as deploying it out to production.
And now that is now open sourced
and it is available for folks to use.
And I think some other companies have actually
adopted to using that as well.
- Operate like a DevOps automation for machine learning.
So the people they're writing,
creating the models and the data scientists
don't have to also be DevOps people.
- Right, it's slightly more than DevOps as well
because it also does the pipelining work
to make it possible for someone to, you know,
bring the data from this database and load it in.
All of that work is already taken care of,
or at least there are libraries that are built into Metaflow
that makes it possible to bring those in.
And then it allows you to also do orchestration.
So for instance, machine learning models typically happen
in multi steps and multi stages.
And so the data gets processed by this function,
and then it gets moved on to this other function,
and then it gets moved on to this other thing and so forth.
And so it does the plumbing to make sure
that the data can flow through this topology
and actually produce results and so on.
- Yeah, yeah, you probably have enough data
that that's a lot of data to move, so.
(laughing)
All right, quick question from the audience
before we dive into the topics here.
Diego asks, "On such a big platform
"with so many software engineers
"with different coding practices,
"do you all get together and follow some set norms
"by Netflix or is it more team by team basis?"
It is very much team by team basis.
So each team has their style and the areas that they focus on.
So for instance, like machine learning engineers
are not going to care too much about like,
how do I make this like production grade,
like super heavily fortified or whatever.
And security engineers might be focusing
on completely different things.
So it is different.
But at the same time, I do want to mention
that there are certain norms that are common
across the entire company where, you know,
so for instance, Chaos Monkey is one of those things
where since Netflix operates in a way where, you know,
every team is given the freedom to choose
and operate the way they see fit,
there is no edict that can come from a VP or a president
that says like, you must write code in this way,
like that doesn't happen.
And so what that means is how are you going to enforce,
like, you know, you have to write resilient software
or how are you going to make sure that your software
will continue to run if one of the servers
out of the hundred servers has gone down.
And so there is not a good way to enforce that.
And Chaos Monkey was created as a way to enforce that,
which is, yes, we're not going to be able to tell you
how to write software,
but this particular service that exists,
it's going to go around killing servers.
And so you better make sure that your software
is actually resilient to servers going down.
So that's a way in which we influence people
to produce the right outcome
without telling them how to do it.
- I see, so sort of you agree on a common principle
of design for failure and design for resiliency
and then it's up to people how to make that happen.
- Yes, and also we have the concept of paved paths
or paved road, which is we have certain libraries
that are made to operate within our infrastructure.
So there is an internal discovery tool
and there is an internal metrics collection tool
and there is an internal, you know,
like a failure recovery tool and so forth.
And these libraries that are provided in these languages,
they make it really that simple
to just integrate with these services.
And so it makes it the obvious choice
for people to start using those libraries
rather than, you know, paving their own path, for instance.
So we try and make it as easy as possible
to do the right thing.
And so people generally fall into that paved road solutions
that we have.
Excellent.
And we try to make it also, now especially,
as a central Python team, to promote good practices.
Like you should have a pipeline.
You should choose a release strategy.
You should have tests.
And we help.
If you don't, we can help you set that up
and choose a good release strategy for you.
- Excellent, yeah, that's really good.
So let's dive into this blog post.
Now it was written by Amjit,
but Soren, jump in as well as we talk about, please.
So the first one is related to bandwidth,
to some way, like delivering the content.
And there's some interesting articles and stuff.
It says, "How much of the internet's bandwidth
"does Netflix use?"
And I don't know how accurate this is,
but maybe give us a sense of like,
you got to have a lot of traffic, right?
- Yes, so I think when I first joined Netflix,
I was told that we use about one third
of all of internet's bandwidth,
but that was back in 2017.
So things have changed quite a bit since then.
But I think that our use of bandwidth
is slightly interesting in the sense,
The actual-- when somebody goes to their website
and they're browsing around, all of that data
is served directly from AWS servers.
And so we have servers running in AWS
that does the search functionality, the thumbs up,
the thumbs down, the--
you're selecting something and reading the review
or looking at related things and whatnot.
But as soon as they click on the Play button
on a particular video, the actual video file
itself is not streaming from AWS.
But instead, it's coming from a CDN called Open Connect.
And this is a proprietary thing that we built,
where we ship these CDNs to various internet exchanges
that are already filled with the right videos.
And they get populated with the correct videos
that are getting released overnight or on a regular
basis.
The reason we do that is because we want the videos
stream from the closest possible place for the end user.
And so when an end user in Florida clicks on it, it's coming from an internet exchange
that is located in Florida.
And that's why you don't see a lot of buffering when videos are playing from Netflix is because
there's, you know, it's inside their network to a large extent.
So that's our Open Connect team and that's what they do.
And yeah.
Yeah.
CDNs are awesome.
And they really are just-- they're
kind of a bit of magic performance dust
you can sprinkle on sites.
That works for CSS and JavaScript and stuff.
But when it comes to large content,
then it makes all the difference.
So in the blog post you write--
let's see.
Yeah, it says various software systems are needed to design, build, and operate the CDN infrastructure,
and a big part of them are written in Python.
The network devices that underlie a large portion of it are mostly managed by Python.
So give us a sense of where Python fits in this OpenConnect CDN that you all run.
Sure. Yeah, so the CDNs themselves run like high-performance code to stream the video.
Obviously, that software is not written in Python.
But all the software that orchestrates and makes sure
that these CDNs are remaining healthy,
getting metrics out of them, as well as managing them
and forecasting what sort of videos
are going to be going into these CDNs and so forth,
those are all orchestrated using Python applications.
So these are all internal tools.
There's an OC tools team.
OC stands for the Open Connect, which is the name of the CDN.
And OC tools team is the one that builds that,
And they use quite a lot of Python
for not just tracking our CDNs, but also
for projecting which videos and what shapes
they should be going into.
So for instance, to give you a quick example,
if we are launching, let's say, Stranger Things,
like the newest season, we know for a fact
that these videos are going to be--
that they're either going to be streamed 90% of the time
from television, like a 4K definition television,
or people are going to be watching on their iPhone.
So all these videos get encoded in different formats,
like for different resolutions.
And how much do we put into the CDNs
and how do we get them prepared?
Do we need like multiple copies
so that multiple streams can be read
without having to have contention and so on?
So things like those kinds of projections,
those are all done using Python applications.
- Yeah, you probably can't put every version
of every video at every location all the time, right?
I don't know how much that is,
but that's a large amount of video content,
large load of files.
So you probably gotta predict, right?
These we can fall back to letting them stream
from some higher upstream thing,
but then it'll get cached after it gets viewed a little bit,
but these were pre-loading, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
Actually, Zorin used to work in the team
that did all the encoding in different shapes and sizes,
And they use quite a bit of Python as well.
And he'd be able to tell you more about that stuff.
Yeah, did you just have a huge office,
like a whole building full of GPUs,
and just go in the whole time?
Encoding is a lot of work.
Tell us about this.
Yeah, encoding is a lot of work.
That was my original start here.
And we do a lot of Python as well.
And yeah, we sum it up.
We kind of try and scour, scavenge as many instances
that we can put our hands on.
So if we have any, say, AWS reservations,
but it so happens that nobody's using right now,
we come and grab them and spawn our workers dynamically
and as much as we can.
Interesting.
Almost like grid computing, like steady at home?
Yeah.
Exactly.
Like steady at home.
Yeah.
And if we do have something like that is high priority,
well, there's not enough workers laying around,
then we can go and get some on the spot market,
or, well, get to grab more reservations if need be.
So that is the encoding is basically
take these big master files, right, like these originals,
and we encode them for every single variation where
it makes sense, like for this TV, for that phone,
for Android phone, iOS phone.
What is the product of all the different resolutions
and different platforms?
How many video files do you have to make for--
how many formats do you have to have for one movie?
That changes per need.
And we kind of keep fine tuning how--
we want the smallest files with the best quality, right?
So that keeps evolving.
And sometimes we re-encode the full catalog,
because now we have a better way of encoding, say,
anime things versus action movies versus--
I see.
You might choose a different encoder for a cartoon-like
thing versus the planet Earth type of video.
Yes.
OK.
Yeah, and all of this, basically,
by way of a product of all of this ends up on Open Connect.
I mean, S3, but also Open Connect.
- Yeah, yep.
- And one thing in there that is mentioned on my team,
very interesting project called D-Math.
So that is written in Python, it's machine learning.
And once you have encoded, right?
Like let's say you're trying a new way of encoding
to make the files even smaller, right?
You wanna know during, while you're researching, right?
you want to know, did you come up with a very good,
better encoder than before?
So VMAF is like a little bot that
will look at the encoded new file
and give it a human-like score.
Like, what quality would the human assess this to be?
And it has to be basically excellent quality,
get a high score, I think 90 out of 100, roughly, to pass.
And then this is better, right?
Like we have a smaller file, but the quality is still excellent.
Imperceptibly, it's as good as before, but just a file smaller.
So then we could decide and re-encode the full catalog with that new--
I see.
That's really interesting.
So what you're telling me is you have an AI that you just
make watch Netflix movies all the time.
All the time.
And we have other AIs that watch the whole catalog, for example,
and find where text appears, say, so that when we put subtitles,
we can move them up or down to not put text on text.
And all kinds of metadata, like where can we find landscapes?
Where does Brad Pitt show up?
Things like that.
Incredible.
I had no idea.
People are always full of a lot of surprises.
I think the VMAF software that's written in Python,
I believe that is open source, right, Zoran?
It is open source, yes.
And I think it's one of the Emmy Award winning software.
I did not know that software could win Emmy awards
before this one.
And it apparently won an Emmy award for something.
Videography or something.
Probably, yeah.
Wow.
That's awesome.
All right, the next major section is demand engineering.
This is kind of like DevOps type stuff, right?
Keeping things running, capacity planning.
Yes, that is exactly right.
That was the team that I was in previously.
And the regional failovers is the one
where I mentioned where you could transfer traffic
from one of the AWS regions into the other two regions.
So we run in three separate AWS regions.
And any time any of those regions is having a difficulty,
we can easily move the traffic to the other two regions
without users even noticing that there was a glitch
or any kind of issue there.
- How long does it take?
If you say you've got to move 50% of the traffic
out of US East Virginia to somewhere else,
is that hours, minutes?
- So the fastest we have done is,
So on average, it takes about seven minutes
to do all of that.
And that was our target.
So when I first joined, I was given as a target.
It used to be around 45 minutes at the time.
And we built some interesting things
to make it possible to run it inside seven minutes.
But the fastest we've done is like around five minutes
in like an emergency where,
oh God, the entire region is tanked
and people in the US are not happy about this.
Let's move as fast as we can
and we can do it in five minutes.
Doesn't happen often, but you know when it happens,
especially when AWS Virginia goes down,
because a quarter of the internet stops working.
(laughing)
- Sure, but it's not just AWS that goes down.
Sometimes-- - No, no, I know.
- Sometimes we shoot ourselves in the foot.
So one of the interesting things to make sure
that we release software that is safe
is we do something called regionally staggered releases.
And so when a new software or when a new version gets released,
since it's like hundreds of microservices that are running inside of Netflix
to make it all possible, every service will deploy.
And when they start to deploy, they deploy it into a single region,
wait about like five to 10 minutes to make sure that, you know,
nothing bad has happened, and then they proceed to the next one
and then the next one.
And so when they release it to the first region, they can either,
if they find out that it's bad,
they can either quickly roll it back,
or we could just evacuate out of that region,
because we can do that in under seven minutes.
And so if the rollback takes longer than seven minutes,
then a call will be made by the core team,
which will say, "Let's evacuate out.
"We haven't figured out what the problem is."
So, and then we evacuate, and then we'll debug,
oh, which service did I release,
and what do we need to roll back, and so on.
Because there are hundreds of services
that are simultaneously releasing at the same time.
So it's like quickly trying to identify
which service that we need to roll back
can sometimes be tricky.
So we have used failovers for that as well.
So it's not just AWS's fault.
- Yeah, sure.
And I don't mean to pick on AWS
because all of these data centers go down.
The difference is when AWS goes down,
it's like the internet goes down.
You know, it's like the observability of it is so high
'cause so much runs on there.
It's like that in CloudFlare.
When they go down to you, you're like,
Oh, I see everything's broken.
OK.
Yeah, when sites go down in production,
even for places way smaller than Netflix, it's really stressful.
And you might make it worse by trying to fix it.
So the ability to just go, let's buy ourselves
some time to figure this out.
And just get everyone out.
And then we're going to look at it.
And then we can bring them back.
That's pretty cool.
You did write an article called "How Netflix Does Failovers
in Seven Minutes Flat," which I'll put in the show notes
so people can read more about that if they want.
So this demand engineering side, you talk about,
obviously, tools are primarily built in Python there.
You've got some NumPy and SciPy, and even the bPython shell.
Tell us about some of the Python stuff going on here.
- So before I joined Netflix,
when I actually first started learning Python,
I loved the REPL, but I always felt like the REPL
did not have auto-completion in it.
And that like bPython is a alternate REPL for Python
that provides you with like auto-completion
and syntax highlighting and all that stuff.
So I'm a huge fan of bPython.
And so one of the things that we have done,
like demand engineering specifically is, you know,
we get paged and we have to go in and try and rescue
or traffic out of that region into the other two regions.
And sometimes our software itself will not work
because if an entire region is down,
let's say it's because of a network connectivity issue
or something, then the things that we call out to
in order to make these changes to scale up the other regions
and like evacuate and make DNS changes or whatever,
that itself might be broken.
And when that's broken, like literally SSH into the box
and we will open up like a shell, Python shell,
and do whatever we need to do.
That has not happened in like the last four years,
I would say, but you know, six years ago,
yeah, that was the thing that we used to do.
And I wanted to call out bPython specifically
in this particular case,
because it was so much more useful than trying to remember,
oh, I remember I wrote this function, like what is it?
Like, instead of like opening my IDE
to try to find out what that function is,
like I just import the module,
and then I do the module.
And it lists me all the functions.
And I could invoke it.
And it's such a time saver.
- Yeah, the Python REPL is cool,
but it leaves a lot to be desired in terms of history.
Or even if you want to edit a function
that is five lines long, it's hard to get through.
Another one is PT Python that I'm also a fan of that one.
They're kind of the same category, right?
- Yeah, yeah, Prompt Toolkit,
the one that powered PT Python,
written by Jonathan Slenders actually,
and it's like a fantastic library.
I took kudos to Jonathan for doing that.
It's a fantastic library.
- Yeah, awesome.
So, you got a particular enhancement there for your REPL?
- Sorry, say that one more time.
I was asking Soren if he's got a--
you use either of those.
You got any recommendation for one
of these extended Python REPLs?
So I'm not that big of a user of REPLs in the terminal.
We do ask questions for generating new projects,
et cetera.
I'm much more of a PyCharm user myself.
Well, as you bring that up, one of the really nice Python
Ripples is what I guess it's called probably the Python
console in PyCharm.
Because if you go to that, you get the Python ripple,
but you get PyCharm's autocomplete and type
consistency, and it automatically
modifies the path to import your project.
So yeah, you got one in there.
That one's yours, huh?
Let's see, the core team, alerting and statistical work.
What's this one about?
Core team is our frontline SRE.
So demand team is like building tools
that the core team will leverage to get us out of trouble.
So core team is the one that,
anytime there is like they monitor a lot of metrics,
not just streaming metrics,
but also things like error rates
between services that are happening
and how many requests are successfully coming back
and so forth.
So they obviously use Python to kind of keep tabs on,
Like obviously a person can be sitting in front of a dashboard
just monitoring it themselves.
So they use quite a bit of Python
to analyze the data from all of the hundreds of microservices
in between them, the interprocess communication that
actually happens, and the metrics that come through,
and so forth.
So they use Python for alerting.
And so actually, they use the monitoring--
the next section that's right there
is the monitoring, alerting, and auto-remediation.
We have an internal observability organization
that has built our own time series database
that's not in Python, but it's open source called Atlas.
And that uses, that collects all of the time series data
from all of these services,
and then they try and do alerting and remediation,
auto remediation.
So when a particular alert condition is met,
you can run a small Python script
inside of a framework called Winston
that's again internal, that
allows you to do more complicated things.
So for instance, if you have this one bad instance in
like this collection of 20 instances,
instead of a user going and terminating that instance,
you can now automate that by writing a script that says,
automatically restart that instance or just kill it and so on.
>> Cool. That's part of the auto remediation of it.
It says it's built on G Unicorn,
Flask and Flask Rest Plus.
I'm familiar with the first batch,
but the Flask Rest Plus,
this is an extension for Flask that adds
support for quickly building REST APIs.
Okay, interesting.
>> Because Flask itself already does REST.
So REST Plus I think provides things
like Swagger endpoints automatically,
so you could try it out on the browser and so on.
I have not used Flask Rest Plus myself,
but that team uses it quite a bit.
Yeah, cool. Probably some of the some some similarities to like what FastAPI kind of brings in addition to standard flask I'd imagine.
Exactly, yeah.
Do you use more FastAPI nowadays?
Yes.
Oh, yeah?
Yeah, we're using quite a bit of FastAPI in most of our internal tools actually.
Yeah, it just from reading through this article, it sounds like there's a lot of APIs and just a lot of connectivity through.
There's probably a lot of JSON going around.
Yes.
Yeah, so some of the heavier data stuff
or high streaming services that are in the streaming path
are all typically written in Java.
And for enterprise communication,
they use gRPC, and that uses protobuf to communicate
and so forth.
But most of our internal tools that are written in Python
either use JSON directly, or sometimes they
need to talk to a gRPC service.
And so they use Python gRPC to get the work done.
Cool.
Maybe we'll have some time to come back to gRPC.
I'm not sure.
We've got a lot of things to talk about here.
Yeah, we don't have to go through every section here.
No, I know.
There's just so many interesting angles, right?
And so the next one here is information security,
which obviously--
if you just put anything on the internet
and just tail the log of it within minutes.
You'll see a request for wpadmin.php.
Like it's already just constantly being,
people are just after it, right?
- Yep, yep.
- One of the things you have here that looks interesting
is security monkey written in Python,
which is I guess like chaos monkey, but.
- It is kind of like chaos monkey.
I think this project may have been archived
or it's not actively in development,
it tries to scan our infrastructure for unsafe practices.
That's like an umbrella term to try to add
like whatever is like good practices
that should exist from the security standpoint.
- Yeah, okay, so people can check it out.
Maybe it's not totally active anymore,
but they can take it as inspiration, right?
- Yeah, like back in 2019,
it was one of our most active projects,
But apparently, 2023 is a different world.
It is a different world.
And one of the areas in which 2023 is a different world
is really the AI/ML side.
And you all are doing a lot of stuff
with personalization algorithms, recommendation engines,
machine learning.
And you talked about Metaflow, which is now available.
Yeah.
Yeah, the personalization one, I think
we've just mentioned a bunch of things
that we use from the open source world here.
So I think XGBoost is a library that does machine learning.
So personally, I am not in this field.
So I just went and interviewed the team
and asked them to give me a blurb.
So I wouldn't be able to talk in detail
about any of the personalization stuff here,
but yeah, this is just a showcase
of how much this team relies on Python
and the open source ecosystem
that comes with Python in general.
So it's like heavy users of Panda,
TensorFlow and PyTorch and so on, yeah.
- Cool.
So let me ask you, is it,
both of your team supports Python developers
and Python applications indirectly in that way,
but is it different to support the data scientists
than it is to support say software developers?
Like, do you have to think about that differently?
How so?
- Yes, yes, we do have like a team that is dedicated
to supporting all the data scientists.
And we are like a team that supports a team
who supports the data scientists.
(both laughing)
So yeah, we were definitely like now in 2023,
you know, betting more on Python.
Before Python was more, if it makes sense for you
because of freedom and responsibility,
If it makes sense to use Python in your team, you use Python.
And now we're trying to provide basically
like a better paved path.
This is me and MG with this new team that we started.
We're trying to kind of enhance this paved path better
and better for all of these teams.
And it's hard to know all the specifics
in every single team, but we're trying
to provide them with as good practices
and automation as possible.
So I think you asked, like, how is it different supporting one versus the other?
I think the...
So we built...
So when we first started the team, we met with 10 different organizations inside of
Netflix to find out, like, how they use Python.
And we found that there were some commonalities, but the way, for instance, like, algorithms
engineering uses Python is very different from the way a SRE team uses Python.
And it's very, very different from how our animation studio uses Python.
So like our VFX animation uses Python in a way where they, once they start, like this
is apparently common in all of the movie industry, which is once they start a particular project,
whatever they have chosen at the start of that project, they will stick to it until
that project is completed.
So if that movie takes two years to finish, you cannot upgrade anything inside of that
particular hermetically sealed environment,
development environment that you have.
So that is very different from another,
like a machine learning person who's interested in like,
I just want to write my algorithm.
Like I don't care about how pip works
or like how I pip install.
I don't want to worry about like virtual environments
and things like that.
Whereas a person who's writing internal tools,
they want to like, you know, own the entire tool chain.
It's like, I not only want to maintain virtual environment,
I also want this thing to work with a front end
that is written in React.
And so I would like you to be able to make it possible
to do NPM and pip to coexist and live together.
That's not a hard thing to do,
but it's one of those things where it's like,
if I'm trying to solve a problem,
let's say I'm bringing in Python dependency locking
as a mechanism to help these web developers, right?
Because they don't want to automatically upgrade
anytime they build their system
and suddenly break in production.
Now that might be completely useless
for someone who's working in machine learning.
And so they're like, why are you solving that problem?
You bringing locking to packaging
doesn't help me in any way.
Why are you wasting your time?
And so we had to sort of build personas
for various ways in which Python is used inside of Netflix
so that when we are working on a particular feature,
we can tell them, we are now targeting this persona.
We are working towards making life easy
for animation engineers.
So if it doesn't work for you, that's fine.
That's fine.
We will get to you.
It's just that our persona that we're targeting right now
is not yours.
So that's how it's different, I'd say.
- Yeah, data scientists have a lot less legacy code
that's just still cranking along
because a lot of times once they get,
they discover an insight,
they don't need to run it again, right?
Or the algorithms are changing so fast,
they can just, well, now we're using large language models
instead of whatever.
- Yeah, there you go, yeah.
- Yeah.
Whereas once you get a web app running,
you might not touch that thing
if it doesn't need touching, right?
So you just-- - Exactly, yeah.
- Stability is what you need there.
Cool, all right, maybe a quick bit more.
Yeah, it's, Soren, anything else you wanna call out
out of this article before we move on?
We're running out of time, honestly,
Yeah, but no, no, I think this was a great article, but yeah, a few things.
With regard to this, let's just leave people with this idea that we only touched on a small
part of what is laid out here and all the projects and all the ways in which it's being
used.
So certainly check out the article just called Python at Netflix that I'll put in the show
notes.
It's hard to cover it all in just one hour.
It sure is.
So let's maybe talk for a minute here about this project
that you're involved with, Soren.
Not this one.
This one.
And I'm just too called Portable Python.
I not long ago had Nathaniel Smith
on to talk about PEP 711, distributing Python binaries
and maybe treating CPython runtimes as wheels almost.
And you guys also have a way that you've been using
for a while internally to package up Python
into something that can run as well
called Portable Python, which is open source.
You wanna talk a bit about that?
- Yes.
Yeah, so that is indeed the PEP 711.
I discovered it by listening to your podcast.
Right around PyCon, I think, yes.
It would be very interesting to see
if we could partner up once this is.
So portable Python is, we want to provide Python,
of course, to all Python developers inside, right?
You can always grab your own Python via all kinds of ways,
right, PyEnv, Docker image, et cetera,
but we also provide builds, right, of Python inside
to be used internally.
So portable Python is trying to solve, adjust that.
Well, one particular issue,
how do you go and distribute Python on laptops?
So the end goal is we want to provide a tarball, just
like that Pep says, like a wheel, a tarball that you can
download and drop somewhere, typically in a user's own
folder, tilde slash, myPythons.
And we wanted to work from there.
So you could use PyEnv for that, but with PyEnv,
you need to wait for it to build.
And we want to basically build it ahead of time
and as soon as it's available
and make it available internally.
So what Portable Python is designed to do
is to do such a build,
which we call portable,
and drop it in our factory.
And then our tooling can just go fetch that real quick,
unzip, and it's ready to go.
- So your tooling, the Portable Python tooling,
basically says I'm on this platform,
so I'm on macOS and it's Apple Silicon.
So here's the, and they want this version of Python.
So that means this binary, let's go grab it.
- Right, right.
So Portable Python is invoked by our building machinery.
There's one worker on macOS, X86, macOS M1,
Linux, X86, Linux, ARM64, right?
and there's some external internal tooling that kind of detects that the new open source
version is available using Portable Python. So Portable Python can report you what is the latest
3.11 for example by looking at the ftp.python.org basically. Okay so the latest is 3.11.3. Let's see
do we have it internally? No. Okay let's kick off a build. So we kick off one build for M1,
one built for Linux, etc. And we, with portable Python, with its configuration, we say we want
OpenSSL, that version, we want SQLite, that version, and portable Python goes ahead and
does the build, produces a tarball, we take that tarball and publish it.
That's interesting. So you can control a little bit some of the internals as well,
like the OpenSSL version and SQLite version, maybe a bit more carefully?
Yes. And since it's written in Python, it's able to also inspect, say, any Python. You could run
portable Python, inspect path to this installation, and it will tell you, "Okay, it has a CSL,
that version, SQLite, that version. Does it use Homebrew, shared libraries, or what?" It can
and report on that.
And what it can also,
oh yeah, it generates a thing that I find very important,
like a little file that says,
it's called manifest.yaml.
So every time it builds anything,
it generates a lot that manifest.yaml
where it says, well, I did a build with dash dash,
you know, LTO optimization, dash dash,
like it says everything that was used
to inform what the build had and which worker it ran on,
what time, what was the platform,
like a little bit of metadata which sometimes--
- So you could even see things like what C compiler
optimization flags were enabled when you created it,
for example, right?
- Yes.
- And there is one additional thing.
So Portable Python does not install Python
on your system for you, so it is a builder.
So it builds them and produces tarballs
that can be used in a standalone manner.
And so if you want to bring Python onto your system,
you just download the tarball
from our internal artifact storage and then expand it.
And that we have another tool that automatically does that.
And so when somebody bootstraps a brand new Python project
and they say, I would like to use 3.11.3,
which 3.11.4, I think that got released yesterday,
then we will already have a binary ready for them
that is in the artifactory, in our internal artifactory.
And when they run their build for the very first time,
it will bring the appropriate Python version
that they have specified in either pyproject.toml
or in their talks.ini or somewhere.
And it will bring that appropriate Python,
install it or expand it in a known location,
and it will use that for their building their project
and so forth.
So this is, it's a way to make it easy
for people to not have to manage their Python
on their laptop individually.
And also, this can build Python with a specific prefix.
So on servers, on our internal servers,
what we do is we install Python in a specific location.
Like we always put it inside, let's say, for example,
slash apps slash Python, for example.
It will build it in a way that it makes it easy
for Debian to be built.
And when you install the Debian,
it will put the Python in a specific location.
And also it has other benefits,
such as it tries to make the Python binary
as small as possible,
because we're trying to deploy it out
to like hundreds of thousands or 100,000 servers.
So we would try to reduce the amount
that we need to put on that server.
It does that, like I think the final product
that Zorin checked yesterday,
I believe it was only 50 megabytes
compared to what other like PyEN
and other things are producing, which was 200 megabytes.
So it does it by a few tricks.
Like it removes the test folder, because once you have built it,
having the test folder as part of your final artifact
makes no sense.
That was like 100 megabytes savings right there.
So things like that.
There's some optimizations that we do
that is custom for our work.
>>Yeah, that's a really interesting system.
I think there's increasing momentum
around having some kind of tool that is outside of Python
for managing Python, right?
So far, primarily what we've had is things like Pip, PipX,
so when you have a project called Pickley,
it's all about like, okay, you have Python,
now how do you go forward?
But I think a lot of people are realizing like,
wait, that assumption that I have Python, now what?
Is not a great assumption, right?
And so people are starting to look at tools like RustUp,
which actually is kind of like pip,
but it brings Rust also over.
Yeah, so we're gonna see something there, I think.
I don't know what it is, but it'll be interesting.
- Yeah, did you see the one, Rai?
Rai is the package manager that Armin wrote.
- Yep, yeah, from Armin Roenacker, yep.
- Yeah, that brings Python for you.
His inspiration is from Rust up, apparently.
So Rai is actually written in Rust,
and it does all the things that Poetry and PDM
and other package managers does.
But in addition to that, it also brings Python for you.
And it's using a different Python called Standalone Python,
or something that you already had a link for, I forgot.
But it brings Python from there to expand it
into your system.
Yeah, Python builds standalone.
That's the project that it uses.
- Yep, okay.
- Yeah, I've heard of that.
I haven't done anything with it, but it looks interesting.
- Yeah.
- All right, I think we have time,
we're getting short on time here.
I think we have time for one more really quick thing,
something that you're participating in, Amjith.
And Saurabh, I don't know if you are as well,
but command line database clients
with auto-complete and syntax highlighting.
Tell us about this, this looks cool.
- Yeah, this is just my personal project
that I wrote before, this was a while back.
But the idea is at the time I was trying to learn Postgres
and I didn't know how to do,
like I was learning Postgres and I was using PSQL to do this
and every time I come to like a table,
I'd be like, oh, what columns were there?
I forgot the exact name of the column
and I tried to find it and so forth.
And so finally, I broke down and decided to write
like a shell for Postgres called PGCLI
that uses actually Prompt Toolkit,
like the same toolkit that's used by PT Python.
- I was gonna say, it looks a lot like PT Python.
It's got that Emacs mode.
- Yep.
- You've got autocomplete for basically
the whole SQL language, but also the database schema
that you're connected to, right?
- Yes, that is correct.
So it reads the tables and the columns in that database,
and then it tries to autocomplete
as part of the SQL statement.
So after a WHERE clause, it'll only suggest columns,
and after a from clause, it'll only suggest tables and so on.
Wow, OK.
And after PGCLI, people wanted something for MySQL,
so I created MyCLI.
And then Microsoft came over and said,
we would like to fork PGCLI to make one
for Microsoft's MS SQL Server.
So they did that themselves.
So they took PGCLI source code, and then they created that.
And then another person created LightCLI,
which is for SQLite.
And yeah, and there's other things now.
iRedis is like for a Redis client
that's similar to these things,
but there's a lot more,
like more friendlier shells for databases in general.
- Excellent.
All right, this looks really cool.
I think.
- Yeah, this has got nothing to do with Netflix.
It's mostly just like, hey, it's my personal project.
And you know, just what I do in my free time
sort of a thing.
- Yeah.
Well, it looks really helpful for people
because talking to databases just in your terminal,
it can be tricky, right?
And having auto-complete, especially not so much
the select and where people get that pretty quick,
but the database schema understanding
keeps you in your flow pretty well.
- Right, yeah.
Again, inspired by BPython actually.
Took inspiration from them.
- Yeah, excellent.
All right, well, that'll be in the show notes as well.
Guys, I think that is it for time that we have today.
So we're going to have to wrap it up with the final two
questions here and recommendations.
Let's start with PyPI project.
Not necessarily the most popular one,
but something that you're like, oh, this is awesome.
People should know about it.
Soren, got a recommendation for folks?
I'm going to say PICLI.
Go check out PICLI.
PICLI.
OK, so give us the elevator pitch on PICLI.
It's a CLI tool that allows you to install other CLI tools.
very similar to PIPX in that sense.
But the main difference is being that
if you quickly install Poetry,
every time you run Poetry,
it will keep itself up to date in the background.
So it will keep self-upgrading by default.
You can tell it also not to do that,
but it's main useful thing.
- Cool, so when you launch it,
basically you're launching like a shim that says,
"Run this," and then the background check for update,
And when it exits, if there's an update, just update it.
- Yes, you can take a look at the little shell script,
shell wrapper that it wraps it with, yes.
- All right, Pickly, awesome.
Amjith?
- Oh, I guess I could plug again for BPython,
like good design aesthetics.
I think, yeah, it's an overall better shell
than Python shell.
- Yeah.
- Oh, actually, PDB++,
that's the one that I would actually recommend.
So if you ever use PDB and you wish that PDB had auto-completion, it's PDBPP in PyPy.
You don't have to change your thing at all.
All you have to do is pip install PDBPP.
And then anytime you do a breakpoint and it stops you there, you can do like a variable
dot and it'll give you auto-completion.
And yeah, I don't know.
I'm a huge fan of auto-completion.
- Yeah, I was gonna say, you and I are kindred spirits.
I am all about the auto-complete.
I'm like, this tool is broken
if it doesn't give me auto-complete.
Because it sends you into the documentation,
you'll be like, oh, I need to create
one of these client libraries.
What does it take?
Oh, star args, star star, KW args.
Great, now what am I supposed to do, right?
Like, you know, the auto-complete,
it really makes you more productive.
All right, and then if you're gonna write some Python code,
what editor, if you're not in the ripple, are you using?
For me, PyCharm.
PyCharm is the sublime text and VI if I'm ss-hitching somewhere.
Excellent. And Amjit?
Vim all the way. Even if I don't know how to quit it, I can restart my computer.
That is the source of, the endless source of jokes.
I saw some laptop, a picture of a laptop and it was just smashed to pieces and it said
finally figured out how to quit Vim.
For the longest time actually I had colon Q as a way to quit out of PGCLI because I
would, you know, by instinct just kept hitting colon Q and yeah.
That's amazing.
All right you guys, well it's been great to have you on the show.
Thanks for being here.
for giving us this look at what you're all doing up over at Netflix and in your personal
projects.
Yeah, thank you, Michael.
I just would like to mention that we have a lot of jobs at Netflix that require Python.
So if you are at all interested, please go to jobs.netflix.com and type in Python and
you should get all of the Python job openings that are available.
Yeah, there's a wide variety.
If you want to do infrastructure stuff, there's that.
If you want to do data science, there's that, right?
Like a lot of colors.
course. Yes. Absolutely. All right. Have a great day guys. Thank you. Bye. Bye.